111803125 Siddharth Shirore
111803126 Simran Kucheria 
111803132 Priya Pitre

ABSTRACT 
Audio Denoiser 


For our project, we will be using Artificial Intelligence and Web Development. We will be creating a neural network (an RNN or CNN) that is trained on audio files and a website that displays our output in an effective manner. For the website, we will use Flask (backend) and HTML/CSS (frontend)


A lot of people use services like Alexa, Siri and Google Assistant on a regular basis nowadays. These services have made doing certain tasks easier and faster. Similarly, deaf people rely on devices that convert audio into text to communicate with the world around them. Both of these services rely on accurate conversion of input audio (what we say to Alexa, what people say to deaf people’s devices) for the device to then take any action. All of these devices lack the use of a proper denoiser. As we can see very often too, when we are in a noisy place, or even when there are slight distortions in our audio (simple background noise like an airplane, wind), these devices cannot accurately translate what the input is. Technological advances are made mainly in two areas, A) to make the translation faster B) to predict what the user could’ve said even if its not clear (ex/ if it hears ‘set an album to 9am’, these devices are now smart enough to autocorrect album to alarm, given that in context the user probably said alarm). 

Instead of increasing efficiency after the device has already translated what needs to be said, we take a more head on approach and filter the audio beforehand. We think that with the advancement of neural networks, we can feed common background noises (wind, airplanes, TV, animals) and effectively single out the primary speaker, separating them from these noises in their background. This is especially important in a place like India, where the population density does not allow for a lot of quiet atmosphere and a technology like this becomes a necessity. 

Takes a head-on approach and denoises the input before services like alexa or deaf translators have to analyze them (hence making their job easier).
Higher likelihood of getting the desired output for the user.
Faster output, as these services don’t have to use additional autocorrect like technologies to filter output if it's accurate in the first place. 
Allows for people in dense living situations to use these services without a hassle.

As our reliance on these services increases, we have to ensure that what we say is properly translated by them for us to be able to use them more effectively. Our proposal not only deals with this problem in the most efficient way possible, but also displays it in a way that makes fetching the output easier (though the use of a proper website). 

